# The Project Proposal


## Motivation and Purpose

Role - Data Visualization team B

Target audience - Belgium`s energy management system and the Belgians.

It is really important for the electricity grid operators to determine the amount of electricity fed into the electricity grid otherwise it might lead to a power blackout. The served purpose for this visualization would be to help the energy management system of Belgium to determine the adequate size of photovoltaic and energy storage to diminish the power flow into the grid during the various seasons of the year. Moreover, since the data is collected from a low-energy house it would help the management to address the challenge and decide upon a minimum threshold per household for load control if required in any unforeseen emergency situation. For instance, in case the management is willing to perform certain changes in the services or is willing to keep the power grid under maintenance then they would require a backup system that has the capacity to handle the least amount of energy load per household which is dependent on that power grid which is under maintenance. Our main focus would be to help the team to find out only the necessary amount of energy required by a Belgium resident. Our app will allow the user/the operator`s supervising team to flexibly filter their search and view different aspects of the data by filtering and re-ordering on different variables and provide them ease in extracting the lowest amount of energy that is a necessity for any Belgium household from a single dashboard. It would be dynamic with respect to the season selection and the time duration – day, or night.


## Data Description

The data set was donated in the year 2017 by Luis Candanedo, University of Mons (UMONS). It was collected to create regression models of appliances energy use in a low energy building in Belgium. Our dataset includes approximately, 20000 temperature and humidity sensors measurements from a ZigBee wireless network, outside weather conditions (`To` and `RH_out`, `Wind speed`, `Visibility`, `Tdewpoint`) from a nearby airport station (Chievres Airport, Belgium), and recordings of the energy consumed by the lighting fixtures and other appliances operated by the people residing in that house. The recordings have been recorded at 10 min for about 4.5 months (i.e. from January 11, 2016 to May 27, 2016) in a low-energy building. The node transmitted the temperature recording (`T1` to `T9`) in Celsius and humidity (`RH_1` to `RH_9`) in % for every individual room in the house around every 3.3 minutes which were then averaged for 10 minutes periods. The energy data for both appliances (`Appliances`) and lights (`lights`) separately was logged every 10 minutes with m-bus energy meters in the Wh unit. 

There are a lot of variations in the energy consumed by the appliances in the house depending on the temperature outside the house and the time of the day. The mean is 97.69Wh but there are appliances that consume as high as 1080Wh. The lights consume comparatively less energy than all the other appliances and the least a light consumes is 0 Wh which might be during the daytime. Despite the temperature outside the house the people residing in the house always maintained the average temperature of the house around 22 Celsius for all the rooms of the house. The variations could still be observed depending on the activities conducted and the location of the room.

The dataset has no missing values so there was not much of data scleaning required except for changing the data type for the `date` column. All the other variables were of the data type as we require which is numeric. Outliers have not been removed to serve the purpose of the project which is to determine the least necessary energy load required by a household. Removal of outliers might affect our predictions, these might be considered as a buffer energy for the household which are consumed on some special occassions. In order to avoid the risk of power blackout we will not remove the outlier.

## Research questions and usage scenarios 

John, a grid operator supervisor at Belgium`s energy management system is willing to know what is the minimum energy level consumption amongst the Belgian household in order to [predict] the least load capacity of the power grid. He wants to [explore] the historical data and [interpret] different aspects of the data as per his requirements. He is unwilling to open the raw data instead have eased to [visualize] things and conveniently [interpret] and [communicate] his message to the team. The dashboard will help him to [filter] the different visualization components on the basis of the room in the house and view the time series of the temperature and simultaneously [compare] it with the prevailing wind speed and temperature outside the house. John could also [view] the trend plot of the temperature variation as per the different times of the day. The average appliance's energy consumption in Wh rate could also be [explored] based on the [filters] John chooses from the dashboard. John would work efficiently by selecting various options from the dashboard and visually presenting his experimental strategy to his boss and the team.
